A-Methapred (Methylprednisolone Sodium Succinate)
https://www.rxlist.com/a-methapred-drug.htm








Description for A-Methapred
A-Methapred (methylprednisolone sodium succinate for injection, USP) sterile powder contains methylprednisolone sodium succinate as the active ingredient. Methylprednisolone sodium succinate, USP, occurs as a white, or nearly white, odorless hygroscopic, amorphous solid. It is very soluble in water and in alcohol; it is insoluble in chloroform and is very slightly soluble in acetone.
The chemical name for methylprednisolone sodium succinate is pregna-1,4-diene-3,20-dione,21-(3-carboxy-1-oxo-propoxy)-11,17-dihydroxy-6-methyl-monosodium salt, (6a, 11ß), and the molecular weight is 496.53.
The structural formula is represented below:











Methylprednisolone sodium succinate is so extremely soluble in water that it may be administered in a small volume of diluent and is especially well suited for intravenous use in situations in which high blood levels of methylprednisolone are required rapidly.
A-Methapred (methylprednisolone sodium succinate) is available in several strengths and packages for intravenous or intramuscular administration.
40 mg Single-Dose Vial- Each mL (when mixed) contains methylprednisolone sodium succinate equivalent to 40 mg methylprednisolone; also 1.6 mg monobasic sodium phosphate anhydrous; 17.46 mg dibasic sodium phosphate anhydrous; 25 mg lactose anhydrous; 8.8 mg benzyl alcohol added as preservative.
125 mg Single-Dose Vial- Each 2 mL (when mixed) contains methylprednisolone sodium succinate equivalent to 125 mg methylprednisolone; also 1.6 mg monobasic sodium phosphate anhydrous; 17.4 mg dibasic sodium phosphate anhydrous; 17.6 mg benzyl alcohol added as preservative.
When necessary, the pH of each formula was adjusted with sodium hydroxide so that the pH of the reconstituted solution is within the USP specified range of 7 to 8 and the tonicities are, for the 40 mg per mL solution, 0.50 osmolar; for the 125 mg per 2 mL, 0.40 osmolar; (Isotonic saline = 0.28 osmolar).
IMPORTANT- Use only Bacteriostatic Water For Injection with Benzyl Alcohol when reconstituting A-Methapred (methylprednisolone sodium succinate) .
Use within 48 hours after mixing. 









Uses for A-Methapred
When oral therapy is not feasible, and the strength, dosage form and route 
  of administration of the drug reasonably lend the preparation to the treatment 
  of the condition, A-Methapred (methylprednisolone sodium succinate)  sterile powder is indicated for intravenous or 
  intramuscular use in the following conditions: 

Endocrine Disorders

 Primary or secondary adrenocortical insufficiency (hydrocortisone 
		or cortisone is the drug of choice; synthetic analogs may be used in conjunction 
		with mineralocorticoids where applicable; in infancy, mineralocorticoid 
		supplementation is of particular importance)
 Acute adrenocortical insufficiency (hydrocortisone or cortisone 
		is the drug of choice; mineralocorticoid supplementation may be necessary, 
		particularly when synthetic analogs are used)
 Preoperatively and in the event of serious trauma or illness, 
		in patients with known adrenal insufficiency or when adrenocortical reserve 
		is doubtful
 Shock unresponsive to conventional therapy if adrenocortical 
		insufficiency exists or is suspected
 Congenital adrenal hyperplasia
 Hypercalcemia associated with cancer
 Nonsuppurative thyroiditis


Rheumatic Disorders 
	As adjunctive therapy for short-term administration (to tide the patient over 
	an acute episode or exacerbation) in: 
	
 Post-traumatic osteoarthritis
 Synovitis of osteoarthritis
 Rheumatoid arthritis, including juvenile rheumatoid arthritis 
		(selected cases may require low-dose maintenance therapy)
 Acute and subacute bursitis
 Epicondylitis
 Acute nonspecific tenosynovitis
 Acute gouty arthritis
 Psoriatic arthritis
 Ankylosing spondylitis


Collagen Diseases 
	During an exacerbation or as maintenance therapy in selected cases of: 
	
 Systemic lupus erythematosus
 Systemic dermatomyositis (polymyositis)
 Acute rheumatic carditis


Dermatologic Diseases 

 Pemphigus
 Severe erythema multi-forme (Stevens-Johnson syndrome)
 Exfoliative dermatitis
 Bullous dermatitis herpetiformis
 Severe seborrheic dermatitis
 Severe psoriasis
 Mycosis fungoides


Allergic States 
	Control of severe or incapacitating allergic conditions intractable to adequate 
	trials of conventional treatment in: 
	
 Bronchial asthma
 Contact dermatitis
 Atopic dermatitis
 Serum sickness
 Seasonal or perennial allergic rhinitis
 Drug hypersensitivity reactions
 Urticarial transfusion reactions
 Acute noninfectious laryngeal edema (epinephrine is the drug of first 
		choice)


Ophthalmic Diseases 
	Severe acute and chronic allergic and inflammatory processes involving the 
	eye, such as: 
	
 Herpes zoster ophthalmicus
 Iritis, iridocyclitis
 Chorioretinitis
 Diffuse posterior uveitis and choroiditis
 Optic neuritis
 Sympathetic ophthalmia
 Anterior segment inflammation
 Allergic conjunctivitis
 Allergic corneal marginal ulcers
 Keratitis


Gastrointestinal Diseases
	To tide the patient over a critical period of the disease in: 
	
Ulcerative colitis (systemic therapy)
 Regional enteritis (systemic therapy)


Respiratory Diseases 

 Symptomatic sarcoidosis
 Berylliosis
 Fulminating or disseminated pulmonary tuberculosis when used 
		concurrently with appropriate antituberculous chemotherapy
 Loeffler's syndrome not manageable by other means 
 Aspiration pneumonitis


Hematologic Disorders 

 Acquired (autoimmune) hemolytic anemia
 Idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura in adults (IV only; IM administration 
		is contraindicated)
 Secondary thrombocytopenia in adults
 Erythroblastopenia (RBC anemia)
 Congenital (erythroid) hypoplastic anemia


Neoplastic Diseases 
	For palliative management of: 
	
 Leukemias and lymphomas in adults
 Acute leukemia of childhood


Edematous States 

 To induce diuresis or remission of proteinuria in the nephrotic syndrome, 
	  without uremia, of the idiopathic type or that due to lupus erythematosus

Nervous System 

 Acute exacerbations of multiple sclerosis

Miscellaneous

 Tuberculous meningitis with subarachnoid block or impending block 
		when used concurrently with appropriate antituberculous chemotherapy
 Trichinosis with neurologic or myocardial involvement











Dosage for A-Methapred
When high dose therapy is desired, the recommended dose of A-Methapred (methylprednisolone sodium succinate)  sterile 
  powder is 30 mg/kg administered intravenously over at least 30 minutes. This 
  dose may be repeated every 4 to 6 hours for 48 hours.
 In general, high dose corticosteroid therapy should be continued only until 
  the patient's condition has stabilized; usually not beyond 48 to 72 hours.
 Although adverse effects associated with high dose short-term corticoid therapy 
  are uncommon, peptic ulceration may occur. Prophylactic antacid therapy may 
  be indicated. 
 In other indications initial dosage will vary from 10 to 40 mg of methylprednisolone 
  depending on the clinical problem being treated. The larger doses may be required 
  for short-term management of severe, acute conditions. The initial dose usually 
  should be given intravenously over a period of several minutes. Subsequent doses 
  may be given intravenously or intramuscularly at intervals dictated by the patient's 
  response and clinical condition. Corticoid therapy is an adjunct to, and not 
  replacement for conventional therapy. 
 Dosage may be reduced for infants and children but should be governed more 
  by the severity of the condition and response of the patient than by age or 
  size. It should not be less than 0.5 mg/kg every 24 hours. 
 Dosage must be decreased or discontinued gradually when the drug has been 
  administered for more than a few days. If a period of spontaneous remission 
  occurs in a chronic condition, treatment should be discontinued. Routine laboratory 
  studies, such as urinalysis, two-hour postprandial blood sugar, determination 
  of blood pressure and body weight, and a chest X-ray should be made at regular 
  intervals during prolonged therapy. Upper GI X-rays are desirable in patients 
  with an ulcer history or significant dyspepsia.
 A-Methapred (methylprednisolone sodium succinate)  may be administered by intravenous or intramuscular injection 
  or by intravenous infusion, the preferred method for initial emergency use being 
  intravenous injection. To administer by intravenous (or intramuscular) injection, 
  prepare solution as directed. The desired dose may be administered intravenously 
  over a period of several minutes. 
To prepare solutions for intravenous infusion, first prepare the solution for 
  injection as directed. This solution may then be added to indicated amounts 
  of 5% dextrose in water, isotonic saline solution or 5% dextrose in isotonic 
  saline solution.
Multiple Sclerosis
In treatment of acute exacerbations of multiple sclerosis, daily doses of 200 
  mg of prednisolone for a week followed by 80 mg every other day for 1 month 
  have been shown to be effective (4 mg of methylprednisolone is equivalent to 
  5 mg of prednisolone).
Directions for Reconstitution 

Remove protective cap.
Cleanse stopper with suitable germicide.
Aseptically add 1 mL Bacteriostatic Water for Injection, USP (with benzyl 
	alcohol) for the 40 mg vial or 2 mL Bacteriostatic Water for Injection, USP 
	(with benzyl alcohol) for the 125 mg vial.
Agitate to effect solution.
Invert vial. Insert needle through target area of stopper until tip is just 
	visible. Withdraw dose.

Storage Conditions
Protect from light.
 Store unreconstituted product at 20 to 25°C (68 to 77°F). [See USP 
  Controlled Room Temperature.]
 Store solution at 20 to 25°C (68 to 77°F). [See USP Controlled Room 
  Temperature.]
 Use solution within 48 hours after mixing.
HOW SUPPLIED
A-Methapred (methylprednisolone sodium succinate)  sterile powder is available in the following packages:



List 
Container 
Concentration 


3217
Single-Dose Vial
40 mg/vial


3218 
Single-Dose Vial
125 mg/vial


Rev: October, 2005. Hospira Inc., Lake Forest, IL 60045, USA. FDA rev date: 11/25/2008 









Side Effects for A-Methapred
Fluid and Electrolyte Disturbances 
Sodium retention, Fluid retention, Congestive heart failure in susceptible 
  patients, Potassium loss, Hypokalemic alkalosis, Hypertension
Musculoskeletal 
Muscle weakness, Steroid myopathy, Loss of muscle mass, Severe arthralgia, 
  Vertebral compression fractures, Aseptic necrosis of femoral and humeral heads, 
  Pathologic fracture of long bones, Osteoporosis
Gastrointestinal
Peptic ulcer with possible perforation and hemorrhage, Pancreatitis, Abdominal 
  distention, and Ulcerative esophagitis
Dermatologic
Impaired wound healing, Thin fragile skin, Petechiae and ecchymoses, Facial 
  erythema, Increased sweating, May suppress reactions to skin tests
Neurological
Increased intracranial pressure with papilledema (pseudo-tumor cerebri) usually 
  after treatment, Convulsions, Vertigo, Headache
Endocrine
Development of Cushingoid state, Suppression of growth in children, Secondary 
  adrenocortical and pituitary unresponsiveness, particularly in times of stress, 
  as in trauma, surgery or illness, Menstrual irregularities, Decreased carbohydrate 
  tolerance, Manifestations of latent diabetes mellitus, Increased requirements 
  for insulin or oral hypoglycemic agents in diabetics
Ophthalmic
Posterior subcapsular cataracts, Increased intraocular pressure, Glaucoma, 
  Exophthalmos
Metabolic
Negative nitrogen balance due to protein catabolism 
The following additional adverse reactions are related to parenteral corticosteroid 
  therapy: Hyperpigmentation or hypopigmentation, Subcutaneous and cutaneous atrophy, 
  Sterile abscess, Anaphylactic reaction with or without circulatory collapse, 
  cardiac arrest, bronchospasm, Urticaria, Nausea and vomiting, Cardiac arrhythmias; 
  hypotension or hypertension
Drug Interactions for A-Methapred
The pharmacokinetic interactions listed below are potentially clinically important. 
  Mutual inhibition of metabolism occurs with concurrent use of cyclosporin and 
  methylprednisolone; therefore, it is possible that adverse events associated 
  with the individual use of either drug may be more apt to occur. Convulsions 
  have been reported with concurrent use of methylprednisolone and cyclosporin.









Warnings for A-Methapred
While on corticosteroid therapy patients should not be vaccinated against
  smallpox. Other immunization procedures should not be undertaken in patients
  who are on corticosteroids, especially on high dose, because of possible hazards
  of neurological complications and a lack of antibody response. 
In patients on corticosteroid therapy subjected to any unusual stress, increased
  dosage of rapidly acting corticosteroids before, during, and after the stressful
  situation is indicated. 
 Corticosteroids may mask some signs of infection, and new infections may appear
  during their use. There may be decreased resistance and inability to localize
  infection when corticosteroids are used. 
 A study has failed to establish the efficacy of Methylprednisolone Sodium
  Succinate for Injection, USP in the treatment of sepsis syndrome and septic
  shock. The study also suggests that treatment of these conditions with Methylprednisolone
  Sodium Succinate for Injection, USP may increase the risk of mortality in certain
  patients (ie, patients with elevated serum creatinine levels or patients who
  develop secondary infections after Methylprednisolone Sodium Succinate for Injection,
  USP. 
 Prolonged use of corticosteroids may produce posterior subcapsular cataracts,
  glaucoma with possible damage to the optic nerves, and may enhance the establishment
  of secondary ocular infections due to fungi or viruses.
Usage in pregnancy
 Since adequate human reproduction studies have not been done with corticosteroids,
  the use of these drugs in pregnancy, nursing mothers, or women of child-bearing
  potential requires that the possible benefits of the drug be weighed against
  the potential hazards to the mother and embryo or fetus. Infants born of mothers
  who have received substantial doses of corticosteroids during pregnancy should
  be carefully observed for signs of hypoadrenalism. 
 Average and large doses of cortisone or hydrocortisone can cause elevation
  of blood pressure, salt and water retention, and increased excretion of potassium.
  These effects are less likely to occur with the synthetic derivatives except
  when used in large doses. Dietary salt restriction and potassium supplementation
  may be necessary. All corticosteroids increase calcium excretion. 
 While on corticosteroid therapy patients should not be vaccinated against
  smallpox. Other immunization procedures should not be undertaken in patients
  who are on corticosteroids, especially on high dose, because of possible hazards
  of neurological complications and a lack of antibody response.
The use of Methylprednisolone Sodium Succinate for Injection, USP sterile powder
  in active tuberculosis should be restricted to those cases of fulminatingor
  disseminated tuberculosis in which the corticosteroid is used for the management
  of the disease in conjunction with appropriate antituberculous regimen. 
 If corticosteroids are indicated in patients with latent tuberculosis or tuberculin
  reactivity, close observation is necessary as reactivation of the disease may
  occur. During prolonged corticosteroid therapy, these patients should receive
  chemoprophylaxis. 
 Because rare instances of anaphylactic (eg, bronchospasm) reactions have occurred
  in patients receiving parenteral corticosteroid therapy, appropriate precautionary
  measures should be taken prior to administration, especially when the patient
  has a history of allergy to any drug. 
There are reports of cardiac arrhythmias and/or circulatory collapse and/or
  cardiac arrest following the rapid administration of large IV doses of Methylprednisolone
  Sodium Succinate for Injection, USP (greater than 0.5 gram administered over
  a period of less than 10 minutes). Bradycardia has been reported during or after
  the administration of large doses of Methylprednisolone sodium succinate, and
  may be unrelated to the speed or duration of infusion. 
Persons who are on drugs which suppress the immune system are more susceptible
  to infections than healthy individuals. Chicken pox and measles, for example,
  can have a more serious or even fatal course in non-immune children or adults
  on corticosteroids. In such children or adults who have not had these diseases,
  particular care should be taken to avoid exposure. How the dose, route and duration
  of corticosteroid administration affects the risk of developing a disseminated
  infection is not known. The contribution of the underlying disease and/or prior
  corticosteroid treatment to the risk is also not known. If exposed to chicken
  pox, prophylaxis with varicella zoster immune globulin (VZIG) may be indicated.
  If exposed to measles, prophylaxis with pooled intramuscular immunoglobulin
  (IG) may be indicated. (See the respective package inserts for complete VZIG
  and IG prescribing information.) If chicken pox develops, treatment with antiviral
  agents may be considered. 










Precautions for A-Methapred
General Precautions
Drug-induced secondary adrenocortical insufficiency may be minimized by gradual
  reduction of dosage. This type of relative insufficiency may persist for months
  after discontinuation of therapy; therefore, in any situation of stress occurring
  during that period, hormone therapy should be reinstituted. Since mineralocorticoid
  secretion may be impaired, salt and/or a mineralocorticoid should be administered
  concurrently. 
 There is an enhanced effect of corticosteroids on patients with hypothyroidism 
  and in those with cirrhosis.
 Corticosteroids should be used cautiously in patients with ocular herpes simplex
  because of possible corneal perforation. 
 The lowest possible dose of corticosteroid should be used to control the condition
  under treatment, and when reduction in dosage is possible, the reduction should
  be gradual.
 Psychic derangements may appear when corticosteroids are used, ranging from
  euphoria, insomnia, mood swings, personality changes, and severe depression,
  to frank psychotic manifestations. Also, existing emotional instability or psychotic
  tendencies may be aggravated by corticosteroids.
Aspirin should be used cautiously in conjunction with corticosteroids in hypoprothrombinemia.
Steroids should be used with caution in nonspecific ulcerative colitis, if
  there is a probability of impending perforation, abscess or other pyogenic infection;
  diverticulitis; fresh intestinal anastomoses; active or latent peptic ulcer;
  renal insufficiency; hypertension; osteoporosis; and myasthenia gravis. 
 Growth and development of infants and children on prolonged corticosteroid
  therapy should be carefully observed.
 Although controlled clinical trials have shown corticosteroids to be effective
  in speeding the resolution of acute exacerbations of multiple sclerosis, they
  do not show that corticosteroids affect the ultimate outcome or natural history
  of the disease. The studies do show that relatively high doses of corticosteroids
  are necessary to demonstrate a significant effect. (See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION.)
 Since complications of treatment with glucocorticoids are dependent on the
  size of the dose and duration of treatment, a risk/benefit decision must be
  made in each individual case as to dose and duration of treatment and as to
  whether daily or intermittent therapy should be used. 










Overdose Information for A-Methapred
No information provided.
Contraindications for A-Methapred
The use of A-Methapred (methylprednisolone sodium succinate)  sterile powder is contraindicated in premature infants 
  because the reconstitution diluent contains benzyl alcohol. Benzyl alcohol has 
  been reported to be associated with a fatal "Gasping Syndrome" in 
  premature infants. A-Methapred (methylprednisolone sodium succinate)  sterile powder is also contraindicated in systemic 
  fungal infections and patients with known hypersensitivity to the product and 
  its constituents. 










Clinical Pharmacology for A-Methapred
Methylprednisolone is a potent anti-inflammatory steroid with greater anti-inflammatory 
  potency than prednisolone and even less tendency than prednisolone to induce 
  sodium and water retention. 
 Methylprednisolone sodium succinate has the same metabolic and anti-inflammatory 
  actions as methylprednisolone. When given parenterally and in equimolar quantities, 
  the two compounds are equivalent in biologic activity. The relative potency 
  of A-Methapred (methylprednisolone sodium succinate)  sterile powder and hydrocortisone sodium succinate, as indicated 
  by depression of eosinophil count, following intravenous administration, is 
  at least four to one. This is in good agreement with the relative oral potency 
  of methylprednisolone and hydrocortisone. 










Patient Information for A-Methapred
Persons who are on immunosuppressant doses of corticosteroids should be warned 
  to avoid exposure to chicken pox or measles. Patients should also be advised 
  that if they are exposed, medical advice should be sought without delay. 




