Abarelix (Plenaxis)
https://www.rxlist.com/plenaxis-drug.htm








WARNING
Immediate-onset systemic allergic reactions, some resulting in hypotension and syncope, have occurred after administration of Plenaxis™ . These immediate-onset reactions have been reported to occur following any administration of Plenaxis™ , including after the initial dose. The cumulative risk of such a reaction increases with the duration of treatment (see WARNINGS). Following each injection of Plenaxis™ , patients should be observed for at least 30 minutes in the office and in the event of an allergic reaction, managed appropriately.

Only physicians who have enrolled in the Plenaxis™ PLUS Program (Plenaxis™ User Safety Program), based on their attestation of qualifications and acceptance of prescribing responsibilities, may prescribe Plenaxis™ (See DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION and HOW SUPPLIED).
Plenaxis™ is indicated for the palliative treatment of men with advanced symptomatic prostate cancer, in whom LHRH agonist therapy is not appropriate and who refuse surgical castration, and have one or more of the following: (1) risk of neurological compromise due to metastases, (2) ureteral or bladder outlet obstruction due to local encroachment or metastatic disease, or (3) severe bone pain from skeletal metastases persisting on narcotic analgesia.
The effectiveness of Plenaxis™ in suppressing serum testosterone to castrate levels decreases with continued dosing in some patients (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY, Pharmacodynamics). Effectiveness beyond 12 months has not been established. Treatment failure can be detected by measuring serum total testosterone concentrations just prior to administration on Day 29 and every 8 weeks thereafter (see WARNINGS).



Description for Plenaxis
Abarelix for injectable suspension (Plenaxis™ ) is a synthetic decapeptide with potent antagonistic activity against naturally occurring gonadotropin releasing-hormone (GnRH). Plenaxis™ inhibits gonadotropin and related androgen production by directly and competitively blocking GnRH receptors in the pituitary.
Abarelix is chemically described as acetyl-D-β-naphthylalanyl-D-4-chlorophenylalanyl- D-3-pyridylalanyl-L-seryl-L-N-methyl-tyrosyl-D-asparagyl-L-leucyl-L-N(ε)-isopropyllysyl- L-prolyl-D-alanyl-amide. It is initially manufactured as an acetate water complex and converted to a carboxymethylcellulose (CMC) water complex in manufacturing the drug product. The molecular weight for abarelix anhydrous free base is 1416.06.
The structural formula for abarelix peptide is:











Abarelix for injectable suspension is supplied as a white to off-white sterile dry powder which, when mixed with the diluent, 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP, becomes a depot suspension intended for intramuscular (IM) injection. The single-dose vial contains 113 mg of anhydrous free base abarelix peptide (net) supplied in an abarelix CMC complex. This complex also contains 19.1 to 31 mg of CMC. After the vial is reconstituted with 2.2 mL of 0.9% sodium chloride injection, 2 mL is administered to deliver a dose of 100 mg of abarelix (net) as the abarelix CMC complex at a pH of 5±1.









Uses for Plenaxis
Plenaxis™  is indicated for the palliative treatment of men with advanced
  symptomatic prostate cancer, in whom LHRH agonist therapy is not appropriate
  and who refuse surgical castration, and have one or more of the following: (1)
  risk of neurological compromise due to metastases, (2) ureteral or bladder outlet obstruction due to local encroachment or metastatic disease, or (3) severe bone
  pain from skeletal metastases persisting on narcotic analgesia.
Dosage for Plenaxis
For safety reasons, Plenaxis™  is approved with marketing restrictions.
  Only physicians who attest to the following qualifications and accept the following
  responsibilities, and on that basis enroll in PRAECIS PHARMACEUTICALS INCORPORATED's
  Plenaxis™  PLUS Program should prescribe Plenaxis™ . PRAECIS PHARMACEUTICALS
  INCORPORATED and its agents will provide Plenaxis™  to physicians enrolled
  in the Plenaxis™  PLUS Program.
To enroll, physicians must attest that they are able and willing to:

diagnose and manage advanced symptomatic prostate cancer.
diagnose and treat allergic reactions, including anaphylaxis.
have access to medication and equipment necessary to treat allergic reactions,
	including anaphylaxis.
have patients observed for development of allergic reactions for 30 minutes
	following each administration of Plenaxis™ .
understand the risks and benefits of palliative treatment with Plenaxis™ ,
	including information from the Package Insert, Patient Information, and the
	Physician Attestation.
educate the patients on the risks and benefits of treatment with Plenaxis™
	and obtain the patient's signature on the Patient Information signature page,
	sign it, and place the original signed form in the patient's medical record,
	and give a copy of the Patient Information leaflet with the signed page to
	the patient.
report serious adverse events, such as any immediate-onset systemic allergic
	event (including anaphylaxis, hypotension, and syncope) as soon as possible
	to PRAECIS PHARMACEUTICALS INCORPORATED at 1-866-PLENAXIS (1-866-753-6294) or
  to the Food and Drug Administration's MedWatch Program at 1-800-FDA-1088.
understand that they may withdraw their enrollment in the Plenaxis™  Prescribing
    Program by a written statement submitted to PRAECIS PHARMACEUTICALS INCORPORATED
    (contact information below) or that PRAECIS PHARMACEUTICALS INCORPORATED may
    withdraw physicians from the Plenaxis™  PLUS Program if they do not meet
    the agreed upon responsibilities.

To enroll in the Plenaxis™  Prescribing Program call 1-866-PLENAXIS (1-866-753-6294)
  or visit www.plenaxisplus.com.
Dose: The recommended dose of Plenaxis™  is 100 mg administered
  intramuscularly to the buttock on Day 1, 15, 29 (week 4) and every 4 weeks thereafter.
  Treatment failure can be detected by measuring serum testosterone concentrations
  just prior to Plenaxis™  administration, beginning on Day 29 and every
  8 weeks thereafter.
Directions for Reconstituting and Administering Plenaxis™ 
Read the instructions completely before performing reconstitution.
The sterile powder for suspension is to be reconstituted in accordance with
  the following directions:
Reconstitution Instructions for 1 Vial of Plenaxis™  to Provide a 100
  mg (50 mg/mL) Dose as a Single IM Injection
Use aseptic technique throughout.
Prior to reconstitution, gently shake the vial of Plenaxis™  (abarelix
  for injectable suspension). Hold the vial at an angle (45 degrees) and tap lightly
  on table to break up any caking.
Withdraw 2.2 mL of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Inj., USP using the enclosed 18 G x
  1 ½” needle and a 3 cc syringe. Discard the remaining diluent.
Picture 1







Keeping the vial upright, insert the needle all the way into the vial
  and inject the diluent quickly.
Before withdrawing the needle, remove 2.2 mL of air. Shake immediately.
Picture 2







Shake for approximately 15 seconds. Allow the vial to stand for approximately
  2 minutes. Tap the vial to reduce foaming and swirl the vial occasionally.
Again, shake for approximately 15 seconds. Allow the vial to stand for
  approximately 2 minutes. Tap the vial to reduce foaming and swirl the
  vial occasionally.
Picture 3







Do not reinject the air into the vial. Locate a second injection spot
  on the stopper, and then insert the 18 G needle. Invert the vial and draw up
  some of the suspension into the syringe and without removing the needle from
  the vial reinject it at any remaining solids in the vial. Repeat the process
  until all solids are dispersed.
Swirl the vial before withdrawal and withdraw the entire contents (at least
  2 mL) by positioning the needle at a 45 degree angle as shown in the picture.
Picture 4







Pull the plunger back to recover the residual suspension in the 18 G x1½”
  needle.
Exchange the 18 G x 1 ½” needle with the enclosed 22 G x 1½”
  Safety Glide™ injection needle.
Picture 5







Insert the needle at the desired injection site, pull the plunger back to check
  for back-flow of blood. If blood flows into the syringe, do not inject at this
  site. Select another injection site.
Deliver the entire reconstituted suspension intramuscularly immediately.
Picture 6







Observe the patient after injection for 30 minutes for any sign of an allergic-type
  response.
Plenaxis™  does not contain a preservative and should be administered
  within 1 hour following reconstitution.
Storage
Store at 25°C (77°F), excursions permitted to 15-30°C (59-86°F),
  USP Controlled Room Temperature.
HOW SUPPLIED
The physician must attest to meeting the qualifications and accepting the responsibilities
  in the DOSAGE AND ADMINISTRATION section of this package insert by submitting
  the Physician's Attestation form to PRAECIS PHARMACEUTICALS INCORPORATED to
  be enrolled in the Plenaxis™  PLUS Program. PRAECIS PHARMACEUTICALS INCORPORATED
  and its agents will only provide Plenaxis™  to physicians enrolled in the
  Plenaxis™  Prescribing Program. Plenaxis™  vials are not to be resold
  or redistributed.
Plenaxis™  (abarelix for injectable suspension) is supplied as a single-dose,
  preservativefree vial containing 113 mg of abarelix (anhydrous free base peptide)
  as an abarelix CMC complex, a sterile powder (NDC 68158-149-01) which, when
  reconstituted with 2.2 mL of 0.9% sodium chloride solution, yields a 2 mL delivered
  dose of 100 mg (50 mg/mL). Each single use dispensing pack also contains: a
  single-use 10 mL diluent vial of 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection, USP, one 3
  cc syringe with an 18 gauge 1½ inch needle and one 22 gauge 1½ inch Safety Glide™
  injection needle.
Praecis Pharmaceuticals Incorporated, 830 Winter Street, Waltham, MA 02451-1420.
  02-01









Side Effects for Plenaxis
Immediate-Onset Systemic Allergic Reactions: See BOXED WARNINGS and WARNINGS
In the single study of Plenaxis™  conducted in men with advanced symptomatic 
  prostate cancer, adverse events reported by  ≥ 10% of patients are listed in
  Table 4. Adverse events are listed without regard to causality. Causality is
  often difficult to assess in elderly patients with multiple co-morbidities and
  prostate cancer.
Table 4: Adverse Events in  ≥ 10% of Patients in the Advanced
  Symptomatic Prostate Cancer Study (without regard for causality).



Preferred Term
Plenaxis™ 
		N=81
		n (%)


Hot flushes*
64 (79)


Sleep disturbance*
36 (44)


Pain
25 (31)


Breast enlargement*
24 (30)


Breast pain/nipple tenderness*
16 (20)


Back pain
14 (17)


Constipation
12 (15)


Peripheral edema
12 (15)


Dizziness
10 (12)


Headache
10 (12)


Upper respiratory tract infection
10 (12)


Diarrhea
9 (11)


Dysuria
8 (10)


Fatigue
8 (10)


Micturition frequency
8 (10)


Nausea
8 (10)


Urinary retention
8 (10)


Urinary tract infection
8 (10)


* Pharmacological consequence of androgen 
		deprivation



Changes in Laboratory Values
Clinically meaningful increases in serum transaminases were seen in a small
  percentage of patients in both treatment groups in each active-controlled Plenaxis™
  study. In Study 1 and Study 2 combined, the percentage of Plenaxis™  patients
  reporting serum ALT  > 2.5 times upper limit of normal or  > 200 U./L was
  8.2% and 1.8%, respectively. The percentage reporting serum AST  > 2.5 times
  upper limit of normal or  > 200 U/L was 3.1% and 0.8%, respectively. Similar
  results were reported for active comparators.
Slight decrease in hemoglobin, a pharmacological consequence of castration,
  were observed in patients receiving Plenaxis™  and active comparator. Mean
  increases in serum triglycerides of approximately 10% were seen in Plenaxis™ -treated
  patients.
Drug Interactions for Plenaxis
No formal drug/drug interaction studies with Plenaxis™  were performed.
  Cytochrome P-450 is not known to be involved in the metabolism of Plenaxis™ .
  Plenaxis™  is highly bound to plasma proteins (96 to 99%).
Laboratory Tests
Response to Plenaxis™  should be monitored by measuring serum total testosterone 
  concentrations just prior to administration on Day 29 and every 8 weeks thereafter
  (see WARNINGS). Serum transaminase levels should be obtained before starting
  treatment with Plenaxis™  and periodically during treatment. Periodic measurement
  of serum PSA levels may also be considered.










Warnings for Plenaxis
Immediate-Onset Systemic Allergic Reactions (See BOXED WARNINGS)
 In the
  clinical trial of patients with advanced, symptomatic prostate cancer, 3 of
  81 (3.7%) patients experienced an immediate-onset systemic allergic reaction 
  within minutes of receiving Plenaxis™ . The allergic reactions were urticaria 
  (Day 15), urticaria and pruritis (Day 29), and hypotension and syncope (Day
  141). Patients should be monitored for at least 30 minutes after each injection
  of Plenaxis™ . In the event of an allergic reaction associated with hypotension
  and/or syncope, appropriate supportive measures such as leg elevation, oxygen,
  IV fluids, antihistamines, corticosteroids, and epinephrine (alone or in combination)
  should be employed. From all the prostate cancer clinical trials with Plenaxis™
  (mostly in men without advanced, symptomatic disease), immediate-onset systemic
  allergic reactions (occurring within 30 minutes of dosing), were observed in
  1.1% (15/1397) of patients dosed with Plenaxis™ . In 14/15 patients who
  experienced an allergic reaction, each developed symptoms within 8 minutes of
  injection. The cumulative risk of such a reaction increased with duration of
  treatment. The cumulative rates (and 95% confidence intervals) on Days 56, 141,
  365 and 676 were 0.51%, (0.13%, 0.88%) 0.80% (0.30%, 1.29%), 1.24% (0.43%, 2.04%)
  and 2.91% (0.87, 4.95%), respectively. Seven patients experienced hypotension
  or syncope as part of their allergic reaction, representing 0.5% of all patients.
  The cumulative rates (and 95% confidence intervals) for these types of reactions
  on Days 56, 141, 365, and 617 after the initial dose were 0.22% (0.0%, 0.46%),
  0.32% (0.0%, 0.64%), 0.61% (0.0%, 1.24%) and 1.67% (0.07, 3.28%), respectively.
Decrease in Effectiveness With Continued Dosing
A decrease in overall effectiveness with increased duration of treatment, as
  measured by failure to maintain suppression of serum testosterone below 50 ng/dL,
  was noted (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY, Pharmacodynamics). Treatment
  failure can be detected by measuring serum total testosterone concentrations
  just prior to administration on Day 29 after the initial dose and every 8 weeks
  thereafter.
Prolongation of the QT Interval
Because Plenaxis™  may prolong the QT interval (see CLINICAL PHARMACOLOGY,
  Pharmacodynamics), physicians should carefully consider whether the risks
  of Plenaxis™  outweigh the benefits in patients with baseline QTc values
   > 450 msec (e.g. congenital QT prolongation) and in patients taking Class
  IA (e.g. quinidine, procainamide) or Class III (e.g. amiodarone, sotalol) antiarrhythmic
  medications.










Precautions for Plenaxis
General
Decreased effectiveness in patients  > 225 pounds: The decrease in
  overall effectiveness of Plenaxis™  with increased duration of treatment
  is greater in patients who weigh more than 225 pounds. Strict monitoring of
  serum testosterone in these patients is warranted. Monitoring of liver function:
  Clinically meaningful transaminase elevations were observed in some patients
  who received Plenaxis™  or comparator drugs. Serum transaminase levels
  should be obtained before starting treatment with Plenaxis™  and periodically
  during treatment (see ADVERSE REACTIONS).
Decrease in bone mineral density: Extended treatment with GnRH antagonists
  and LHRH agonists may result in a decrease in bone mineral density.
Geriatric Use
Prostate cancer occurs primarily in an older patient population. Clinical studies
  with Plenaxis™  have been conducted primarily in patients  ≥  65 years
  of age. No difference in the safety profile, when examined as a function of
  age, was apparent.
Pediatric Use
The safety and effectiveness of Plenaxis™  in pediatric patients have
  not been studied. Plenaxis™  is not indicated for use in pediatric patients.
Carcinogenesis, Mutagenesis, Impairment of Fertility
Plenaxis™  was not carcinogenic to mice or rats when administered as a
  subcutaneous depot every 28 days for 2 years at doses up to 300 mg/kg in mice
  and 100 mg/kg in rats. Systemic drug exposures, as measured by mean Cmax, were
  approximately 210-278-fold for mice and 21-32-fold for rats the human exposure
  following subcutaneous depot administration of 100 mg.
Plenaxis™  was not mutagenic in the in vitro bacterial Ames assay 
  or forward mutation assay in mouse lymphoma, or clastogenic in the in vivo mouse
  micronucleus assay.
No effects on mating or fertility in male and female rats given 1 mg/kg subcutaneous
  Plenaxis™ , a dose 0.114-fold the human therapeutic dose of 100 mg based
  on body surface area. Mating and fertility were significantly decreased at doses
  of 3 and 10 mg/kg (0.34-fold and 1.135-fold, respectively, the human therapeutic
  dose of 100 mg based on body surface area), but the effects were reversible.
Pregnancy Category X
(see CONTRAINDICATIONS)
Embryolethality occurred in pregnant rats administered a single subcutaneous
  dose of Plenaxis™  up to 3 mg/kg (0.228-fold the human therapeutic dose
  of 100 mg based on body surface area). In rabbits a dose-related increase in
  fetal resorptions and reduced viability was observed at doses up to 30 mg/kg
  (6.81-fold the human therapeutic dose of 100 mg based on body surface area).
  No teratogenic effects were observed in rats or rabbits up to doses of 3 mg/kg
  or 30 mg/kg, respectively. A no-observable-adverse effect- level (NOAEL) dose
  was 0.3 mg/kg (approximately 0.034-fold the human therapeutic dose of 100 mg
  based on body surface area) in rats and  < 0.01 mg/kg ( < 0.0023-fold the
  human therapeutic dose of 100 mg based on body surface area) in rabbits.
Nursing Mothers
It is not known whether Plenaxis™  is excreted in human milk. Because
  many drugs are excreted in human milk, and because the effects of Plenaxis™
  on lactation and/or the breastfed child have not been determined, Plenaxis™
  should not be used by nursing mothers.










Overdose Information for Plenaxis
The maximum tolerated dose of Plenaxis™  has not been determined. The
  maximum dose used in clinical studies was 150 mg. There have been no reports
  of accidental overdose with Plenaxis™ .
Contraindications for Plenaxis
Plenaxis™  is contraindicated in those patients with a known hypersensitivity
  to any of the components in abarelix for injectable suspension.
Plenaxis™  is not indicated in women or pediatric patients. In addition,
  Plenaxis™  may cause fetal harm if administered to a pregnant woman.










Clinical Pharmacology for Plenaxis
Mechanism of Action
Abarelix exerts its pharmacological action by directly suppressing luteinizing hormone (LH) and follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) secretion and thereby reducing
  the secretion of testosterone by the testes. Due to the direct inhibition of
  the secretion of LH by abarelix, there is no initial increase in serum testosterone
  concentrations. Saturation binding studies revealed that [125I]-abarelix
  has a very high affinity (KD = 0.1 nM) for the rat pituitary LHRH receptor.
Pharmacokinetics
A single dose (100 mg IM) of Plenaxis™  was given to 14 healthy male volunteers
  52 to 75 years of age, with body weight of 61.6 to 110.5 kg, and the pharmacokinetic
  information is provided in Table 1
Table 1: Mean ± SD Pharmacokinetic Parameter Values
  of 100 mg of Plenaxis™  Following a Single IM Injection (n = 14)



Cmax (ng/mL)
Tmax (days)
AUC0-∞ (ng •day/mL)
CL/F (L/day)
t½ (days)


43.4 ± 32.3
3.0 ± 2.9
500 ± 96
208 ± 48
13.2 ± 3.2



Absorption
Following IM administration of 100 mg of Plenaxis™ , abarelix is absorbed
  slowly with a mean peak concentration of 43.4 ng/mL observed approximately 3
  days after the injection.
Distribution
The apparent volume of distribution during the terminal phase determined after
  IM administration of Plenaxis™  was 4040 ± 1607 liters, implying
  that abarelix probably distributes extensively within the body.
Metabolism
In vitro hepatocyte (rat, monkey, human) studies and in vivo studies
  in rats and monkeys showed that the major metabolites of abarelix were formed
  via hydrolysis of peptide bonds. No significant oxidative or conjugated metabolites
  of abarelix were found either in vitro or in vivo. There is no evidence
  of cytochrome P-450 involvement in the metabolism of abarelix.
Excretion
In humans, approximately 13% of unchanged abarelix was recovered in urine after
  a 15 μg/kg IM injection; there were no detectable metabolites in urine. Renal 
  clearance of abarelix was 14.4 L/day (or 10 mL/min) after administration of
  100 mg Plenaxis™ .
Pharmacodynamics
Effects of Plenaxis™  on Serum Testosterone: The effectiveness
  of Plenaxis™  in suppressing serum testosterone was studied in two randomized,
  open-label, activecomparator trials. Patients were not those with advanced symptomatic 
  prostate cancer. They were randomized in a 2:1 ratio to Plenaxis™  100
  mg IM versus LHRH agonist (Study 1) or to Plenaxis™  versus LHRH agonist 
  + nonsteroidal antiandrogen (Study 2). Plenaxis™  was administered IM on
  Days 1, 15, 29 (Week 4), then every 4 weeks thereafter for at least 6 months
  (24 weeks). LHRH agonist and nonsteroidal antiandrogen were administered in
  standard fashion. After completing 6 months of treatment, patients could continue
  randomized treatment for an additional 6 months.
Avoidance of testosterone surge: In both studies combined, 100% (348/348)
  of Plenaxis™  patients and 16% (28/172) of comparator patients avoided
  a testosterone surge.
Attainment of medical castration: The percentage of patients who attained
  serum testosterone concentration  ≤ 50 ng/dL on Study Days 2, 8, 15 and 29
  are summarized in the table below:
Table 2: Percentage of patients who attained medical castration
  (serum testosterone concentration  ≤ 50 ng/dL) in Studies 1 and 2.



Day
Plenaxis™ 


Total N
% Castrate


2
339
24


4
333
56


8
348
70


15
347
73


29
347
94



Attainment and maintenance of medical castration: Successful response
  was defined as attainment of medical castration on Day 29 and maintenance through
  Day 85 (where no two consecutive serum testosterone concentrations between Days
  29 and 85 were greater than 50 ng/dL). In Study 1, 92% on Plenaxis™  patients
  responded and 96% of LHRH agonist patients responded. In Study 2, 93% of Plenaxis™
  patients and 95% of LHRH agonist + nonsteroidal antiandrogen patients responded.
However, when failure was defined as any observed serum testosterone  >  50
  ng/Dl (including transient elevations) just prior to dosing on Day 29 and every
  28 days thereafter, effectiveness of testosterone suppression decreased over
  time. Results of this analysis are summarized in Table 3.
Table 3: Percentage of patients who attained and maintained
  medical castration; [no serum testosterone  > 50 ng/dL just prior to dosing
  on Day 29 and every 28 days thereafter]



Day
Study 1 Plenaxis™ 
N
Study 2 Plenaxis™ 
N


85
84%
176
92%
164


169
75%
166
87%
155


365
62%
93
71%
86



Effects of Plenaxis™  on Cardiac Electrophysiology: In a single,
  active-controlled, clinical study comparing Plenaxis™  to LHRH agonist
  + nonsteroidal antiandrogen, periodic electrocardiograms were performed. Both
  therapies prolonged the mean Fridericia-corrected QT interval by  > 10 msec
  from baseline. In approximately 20% of patients in both groups, there were either
  changes from baseline QTc of  > 30 msec, or end-of-treatment QTc values exceeding
  450 msec. Similar results were observed in 2 other Phase 3 studies with Plenaxis™
  and the active-control treatments. It is unclear whether these changes were
  directly related to study drugs, to androgen deprivation therapy, or to other
  variables.
Special Populations
Race
Data from Hispanics, Blacks and Caucasians demonstrated that race appeared
  to have no influence on the pharmacokinetics of Plenaxis™ .
Renal and Hepatic Insufficiency
The pharmacokinetics of Plenaxis™  in hepatically and/or renally impaired
  patients have not been determined.
Pediatric Use
There have been no studies of Plenaxis™  in pediatric patients.
Clinical Studies
One study of Plenaxis™  was conducted in 81 men with advanced symptomatic prostate cancer who were at risk for clinical exacerbation (“clinical
  flare”) if treated with an LHRH agonist. The objective of this open-label,
  multicenter, uncontrolled, single-arm study was to demonstrate that such patients
  could avoid orchiectomy through at least 12 weeks of treatment. In this trial,
  treatment was to be given for at least 6 months with the option to continue
  treatment in an extension trial.
Of the 81 patients who enrolled, 9 patients from one site were excluded from
  the efficacy analysis due to inadequate documentation by the study investigator.
  The specific reasons given for enrollment of the 72 patients were: bone pain 
  from prostate cancer skeletal metastases (n = 31); an enlarged prostate gland 
  or pelvic mass causing bladder neck outlet obstruction (n = 25); bilateral retroperitoneal
  adenopathy with ureteral obstruction (n = 9); impending neurological compromise
  from spinal, spinal cord, or epidural metastases (n = 6); or other (n = 1).
  The median age was 73 years, range 40 to 94 years. There were 62 Caucasians,
  6 African Americans and 4 Hispanics.
Plenaxis™  100 mg was administered via IM injection on Days 1, 15 and
  29, then every 4 weeks thereafter. Twelve patients discontinued prior to Day
  169 for the following reasons: adverse event (n=2), voluntary withdrawal (n=3),
  death (n=4), and “other” (n=3). Sixty patients were treated for
  at least 24 weeks; in the extension phase, 33 patients for at least 48 weeks
  and 15 patients for at least 96 weeks. None (0%) of the 72 patients required
  orchiectomy while being treated with Plenaxis™ , including the extension
  phase (median combined duration of therapy was 40 weeks). However, 2 patients
  were withdrawn before week 12 for treatment-related adverse events (immediate-onset systemic allergic reactions consisting of urticaria, and urticaria and pruritis,
  respectively) and received alternate therapy. In this trial, medical castration
  (defined as serum total testosterone concentration  ≤ 50 ng/dL) was achieved
  in 57 of the 72 patients (79%) by Day 8, and by 68 of 71 patients (96%) by Week
  4. Although the study was not designed to assess specific clinical outcomes,
  the following were observed:

None (0) of 8 patients with vertebral or epidural metastases and without
	neurological symptoms developed neurological symptoms.
Ten of 13 patients with bladder outlet obstruction and a bladder drainage
	catheter had the catheter removed by 12 weeks.
Eleven of 15 patients with pain due to skeletal metastases were able to
	reduce the potency, dose and/or frequency of narcotic analgesia at 12 weeks.











Patient Information for Plenaxis
Plenaxis™ 
  (plen·AK·sis)
(abarelix for injectable suspension)
Read the Patient Information that comes with PlenaxisTM before you start getting
  injections. Sign the last page if you agree with treatment with Plenaxis™ .
  (Your signature will be required to start treatment.)
What is the most important information I should know about Plenaxis™ ?

Plenaxis™  can cause serious or life threatening allergic reactions
	that may need emergency medical treatment right away. These serious reactions
	may include:
	
low blood pressure and fainting (shock)
swelling of your face, eyelids, tongue, or throat
asthma, wheezing, or other breathing problems such as chest tightness
		or shortness of breath



Your chances of getting a serious or life threatening allergic reaction may
  increase with each Plenaxis™  injection that you get.
If a serious or life threatening allergic reaction happens, it is usually soon
  after getting a Plenaxis™  injection. Therefore, you must wait in your
  doctor's office or health care facility for 30 minutes after each Plenaxis™
  injection. Tell your doctor right away if you feel any warmth, redness,
  light-headedness, swelling or thickness in your throat. This could mean you
  are having a serious allergic reaction.

Only doctors signed up with PRAECIS PHARMACEUTICALS INCORPORATED can
	prescribe PlenaxisTM because they know about treating prostate cancer and
	allergic reactions from Plenaxis™ .
Plenaxis™  is only for treating advanced prostate cancer when a
	patient cannot have or refuses other treatments for prostate cancer, such
	as other hormone treatments or surgery to remove the testicles, and there
	are serious symptoms from the prostate cancer such as the cancer is near or
	pressing on the spinal cord, causing problems urinating or blockage of urine 
	from the kidneys or bladder, or there is very bad bone pain even when taking
	narcotic pain medicines.
Plenaxis™  may not keep working for everyone over time, so doctors
	should do blood tests about every 8 weeks to make sure Plenaxis™  is
	working by keeping your testosterone hormone level low.

What is Plenaxis™ ?
Plenaxis™  is a type of medicine called a gonadotropin-releasing hormone
  (GnRH) antagonist that lowers the male hormone testosterone in your blood. Testosterone
  makes most prostate cancers grow. Other ways to treat your prostate cancer are
  taking other hormone medicines to lower testosterone or surgery to remove your
  testicles. Plenaxis™  is used when these other ways to treat prostate
  cancer cannot be used or are refused.
Who should not take Plenaxis™ ?
Do not take Plenaxis™  if you are:

a woman. There is no approved use of Plenaxis™  in women. Plenaxis™
	can cause serious allergic reactions. Plenaxis™  can cause the death
	of an unborn child in a pregnant woman. Plenaxis™  may also pass into
	breast milk.
a child under the age of 18 years. There are no studies that show
	that Plenaxis™  is safe or effective for use in children for any condition.
allergic to any of the ingredients in Plenaxis™ . The ingredients
	include abarelix and carboxymethylcellulose. The mixing solution contains
	sodium chloride.

Tell your doctor before taking a Plenaxis™  injection:

if you or any family members have a rare heart condition known as prolongation
	of the QTc interval
about all the medicines you take including prescription and nonprescription
	medicines, vitamins and herbal supplements. Plenaxis™  has not been studied
	with other medicines. Plenaxis™  and some of your other medicines may
	affect each other and could cause side effects.

How do I take Plenaxis™ ?
Plenaxis™  is only prescribed by doctors who are part of the Plenaxis™  PLUS Program (Plenaxis™  User Safety Program) run by PRAECIS PHARMACEUTICALS
  INCORPORATED.

Plenaxis™  is given as an injection in your buttocks. Your doctor or
	nurse gives a Plenaxis™  injection every two weeks for the first month,
	and then every four weeks (every 28 days). It is important that you keep your
	appointment with your doctor's office for the times when your injection is
	due.

Always wait in your doctor's office for 30 minutes after getting each
  Plenaxis™  injection. (See “What is the most important information
  I should know about Plenaxis™ ?”)
Your doctor should do regular blood tests about every 8 weeks to check your
  testosterone level to see if Plenaxis™  is working for you. If you weigh
  more than 225 pounds, there may be a greater chance that Plenaxis™  may
  stop working. Your doctor should also do blood tests to check on your liver 
  because Plenaxis™  may cause changes in your liver tests.
What are the possible side effects of Plenaxis™ ?
Plenaxis™  can cause:

serious allergic or life threatening reactions. (See “What
	is the most important information I should know about Plenaxis™ ?”)
allergic skin reactions such as a rash, hives, itching, tingling,
	and redness (flushing). A skin reaction may happen right away after injection
	with Plenaxis™  or several days later. Tell your doctor right away if
	you get an allergic skin reaction or rash after a Plenaxis™  injection.
a change in heart rhythm called prolongation of the QTc interval.
	This condition may change the way your heart beats, cause fainting and even
	death in some patients.
changes in liver function, which usually go away after you stop taking
	Plenaxis™ . Your doctor should do blood tests to check your liver
	function before you start getting Plenaxis™  and during your treatment
	with it.
loss in bone mineral density with extended treatment. Low bone mineral
	density can lead to thinning of the bones (osteoporosis).

The most common side effects of Plenaxis™  are:

hot flashes
problems sleeping
pain, including back pain
breast enlargement or breast pain
constipation

Talk to your doctor if you get a side effect that bothers you.
These are not all the possible side effects of Plenaxis™ . For more information
  ask your doctor.
General Information about Plenaxis™ 
This leaflet summarizes the most important information about Plenaxis™ .
  If you would like more information, talk with your healthcare provider. You
  can ask your healthcare provider for information about Plenaxis™  that
  is written for health professionals.
Patient Signature for Treatment with Plenaxis™ 

I have read and understood the Patient Information leaflet. My doctor has
	answered my questions about treatment with Plenaxis™  for treating advanced
	prostate cancer.
I cannot have or refuse treatments for my prostate cancer, such as other
	hormone treatments or surgery to remove my testicles, and my doctor has told
	me I have serious signs and/or symptoms from my prostate cancer such as the
	cancer is near or pressing on the spinal cord, or it is causing problems urinating
	or blockage of urine from the kidneys or bladder, or I have very bad bone
	pain even when taking narcotic pain medicines.
Plenaxis™  can cause serious allergic reactions right after an injection.

	Therefore, after each injection I will wait in my doctor's office or health
	care facility for 30 minutes so if I have a serious allergic reaction, I can
	be treated.
I know that my doctor should be getting blood tests to check my testosterone
	level about every 8 weeks to check if Plenaxis™  is working for me.
I understand that I can only get Plenaxis™  from doctors who have
	signed up with the company that makes Plenaxis™ .

My signature shows that I have read, understood and agree with all the statements
  above. I allow my doctor to begin treatment with Plenaxis™ . I only need
  to sign this page one time to start my treatment.
Name of Patient (Print):________________________________________________
Signature of Patient:________________________________Date:_______________
Name of Physician (Print):_______________________________________________
Signature of Physician ____________________________Date:_________________
Instructions to Physician:
As part of beginning Plenaxis™  treatment, give the patient a copy of
  the entire leaflet with the signed page, and put the original patient signature
  page in the patient's medical chart.
This information leaflet has been approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration.




